.TH PCP-MACHINE 1
.SH NAME
\f3pcp-machine\f1 - Lua scripting engine for Performance Co-Pilot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3pcp-machine\f1 [\f3-h\f1] [\f3-H\f1 \f2host\f1] \f2script\f1
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pcp-machine 
is a programmable query tool for Performance Co-Pilot,
.BR PCPIntro (1). 
It allows an user to query for live metrics in Lua scripts and program based on these returned metrics.
.P
.B pcp-machine
tries to adhere to the Unix philosophy of being small and modular and is intended to be used in a pipeline with other tools.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B \-H
Query for metric in the context of \fIhost\fR. This option might be set by another tool that \fBpcp-machine\fR is using such as \fBnagios\fR(8). This option does not preclude querying against a host inside a Lua script. It is a convenience method that avoids having to inject data using methods such as environment variables. Defaults to \fIlocal:\fR.
.
.TP 5
.B \-h
This help screen.
.
.
.SH EXAMPLE SCRIPTS
Check the metric \fIproc.runq.runnable\fR and print to the console if there are more runnable processes than CPUs.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cpus = metric('hinv.ncpu')
nprocs = metric('proc.runq.runnable')
if nprocs > cpus then
  print('There are many runnable processes. ' .. nprocs .. ' are currently running')
end
.fi
.RE
.sp
Check \fIfilesys.free\fR metric for free space on each disk for host \fImyhost.example.com\fR. Print out the specific device where storage is too low and exit \fBpcp-machine\fR with an exit code of 1
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
free_space = metric('filesys.free', {host='myhost.example.com'})
for disk, kbytes_free in pairs(free_space) do
  if kbytes_free < 10000000 then
    print('Space on disk' .. disk .. ' is too low!')
    return 1
  end
end
print "Disks are all okay!"
return 0

.fi
.RE
For more script examples see
.B /usr/share/pcp-machine/samples/*.lua
.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP 5
.B 0
Lua script executed successfully and Lua script did not specifically return an exit code.
.TP 5
.B 125 
Lua script failed to execute.
.TP 5
.B n
Lua script is able to alter the exit code using \fIreturn n\fR if it is specified.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR pcp (1),
.BR pminfo (1),
.IR https://github.com/ryandoyle/pcp-machine ,
.IR http://www.lua.org/manual/5.1/


